Building Blocks of Mule Config

Spring Beans: used to construct service component. once the component is created, we can define it through some config file or manually.

Agents: it is a service which is created in Anypoint before the mule studio. Agent is created when you start the server and destroyed when you stop the server.

Connector: it is a software component which is configured with some parameters which is aving some prototcols. you can control the protocols. 

example: JMS connector using that we can create connectiuon and share entities between the real communication.

Global Configuration: used to set global properties.

Global Endpoint: for generating global endpoints using that we can access the global config as many times as we want to fetch.

Global Message Processor: it observes and modifiy the message if required. on that you can apply global transformers and filters.
	transformer: convert the data from one format to another
	filter: filters the data according to the conditions which it is pecifying.

Models: logical grouping of services in the studio called models. we can also start and stop all services inside a models.

	services: wraping the busingess logic

Flows: Message processor use flows to define message between source and target


Mule's Message Architecure
---------------------------------------

Header: metadata of a message

1. Inbound Properties: automaticlly it sets by the message source.
		       it is not possible to set mauallu by user. (immutable)

2. Outbound Properties: 

			this is similar like outbound property but you can set this during the course of flow.

			you can set by your own(manual) or set by Mule (automatic) 

			
3. Payload: original message

4. Variables: user defined metadata of a message.
		these are temporary pieces of info of a message which used to process.

	diffrent types of variables

	1. system variable: apply across all flows in a same application
	2: record variable:apply only to the records, processed a part of a batch
	3: flow variable: apply only on a flow which exist


Attachment and Extra Payload:

extra metadata about message payload which is not complasary to sent everytime with the object.

































